feat: Support CRaC and priming of powertools metrics and idempotency-dynamodb (#1861)
aws-powertools/powertools-lambda-java: Priming.md

# Automatic Priming for AWS Lambda Powertools Java

## Table of Contents
- [Overview](#overview)
- [Implementation Steps](#general-implementation-steps)
- [Known Issues](#known-issues-and-solutions)
- [Reference Implementation](#reference-implementation)

## Overview
Priming is the process of preloading dependencies and initializing resources during the INIT phase, rather than during the INVOKE phase to further optimize startup performance with SnapStart. 
This is required because Java frameworks that use dependency injection load classes into memory when these classes are explicitly invoked, which typically happens during Lambda’s INVOKE phase.

> This documentation provides guidance for automatic class priming in AWS Lambda Powertools Java modules.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This documentation provides guidance for automatic class priming in Powertools for AWS Lambda Java modules.
```

Author: Modified per the suggestion.

## Implementation Steps

> Classes are proactively loaded using Java runtime hooks which are part of the open source CRaC (Coordinated Restore at Checkpoint) project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Classes are proactively loaded using Java runtime hooks which are part of the open source [CRaC (Coordinated Restore at Checkpoint) project](https://openjdk.org/projects/crac/).
```

Author: Modified per the suggestion.

> This implementation uses this hook, called `beforeCheckpoint()`, to prime SnapStart-enabled Java functions via Class Priming.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Implementations across the project use the `beforeCheckpoint()` hook, to prime Snapstart-enabled Java functions via Class Priming.
```

Author: Modified per the suggestion.

> In order to generate the `classloaded` files for Powertools java module, follow these general steps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to generate the `classesloaded.txt` file for a Java module in this project, follow these general steps.
```

Author: Modified per the suggestion.

1. **Add Maven Profile**
    - Add maven test profile with the following VM argument for generating classes loaded files. 
   ```shell
      -Xlog:class+load=info:classesloaded.txt
      ```

>     - You can find an example of this in profile `generate-classesloaded-file` in this [pom.xml](powertools-metrics/pom.xml).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - You can find an example of this `generate-classesloaded-file` profile in this [pom.xml](powertools-metrics/pom.xml).
```

2. **Generate classes loaded file**
    - Run tests with `-Pgenerate-classesloaded-file` profile.
   ```shell
   mvn -Pgenerate-classesloaded-file clean test
   ```
   - This will generate a file named `classesloaded.txt` in the target directory of the module.

3. **Cleanup the file**
    - The classes loaded file generated in Step 2 has the format
   `[0.054s][info][class,load] java.lang.Object source: shared objects file` 

>    but we are only interested in `java.lang.Object` the fully qualified class name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   but we are only interested in `java.lang.Object` – the fully qualified class name.
```

Author: Modified per the suggestion.

    - To strip the lines to include only the fully qualified class name, 
      Use the following regex to replace with empty string.
      - `^\[[\[\]0-9.a-z,]+ ` (to replace the left part)
      - `( source: )[0-9a-z :/._$-]+` (to replace the right part)

> 4. **Place the file**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. **Add file to resources**
```

Author: Modified per the suggestion.

>     -  Move the cleanedup file containing to the corresponding resources directory of the module. See [example](powertools-metrics/src/resources/classesloaded.txt).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    -  Move the cleaned-up file to the corresponding `src/main/resources` directory of the module. See [example](powertools-metrics/src/main/resources/classesloaded.txt).
```

Author: Modified per the suggestion.

> 5. **Register and checkpoint**

Reviewer: Let's clarify this section by stating the following information:
- Mention that ClassPreLoader is implemented in `powertools-common` module
- Mention that this cannot be done in an AspectJ aspect
- Mention that this needs to be done in a suitable class. A class is suitable if it is the "entrypoint" for a module – i.e. `MetricsFactory` for Metrics module.

Author: Added language to clarify entrypoint selection to register with CRaC.

    - Register the CRaC Resource in the constructor of the main class.
    - Add the `beforeCheckpoint()` hook in the same class to invoke `ClassPreLoader.preloadClasses()`.

>     - This will ensure that the classes are loaded during the INIT phase of the Lambda function. See [example](powertools-metrics/src/main/java/software/amazon/lambda/powertools/metrics/MetricsFactory.java)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - This will ensure that the classes are already pre-loaded by the Snapstart RESTORE operation leading to a shorter INIT duration. See [example](powertools-metrics/src/main/java/software/amazon/lambda/powertools/metrics/MetricsFactory.java)
```

  

## Known Issues
- This is a manual process at the moment, but it can be automated in the future.

> - Because the file is generated while running tests, it includes test classes as well.

Reviewer: Let's explain here why this is not a problem. It is not a problem because all classes that are not found are ignored by the ClassPreLoader and the `beforeCheckpoint()` hook is not time sensitive since it only runs once when a new Lambda function version gets published.

Author: Modified per the suggestion.
